I sat at the edge of the boat ferrying me to Tanmar having been "Volunteered," I prefer the term conscripted, as a cartographer for the Archbishops Army as it occupied The Satanazes. Tanmar was where the occupying army was headquartered, and where I would be transferred to the HES Virtues Revenge. After a few hours of staring at the sea I saw a Dwarf on a pseudo-griffin, a creature with the front half of an eagle, and back half of a dog, appeared over the horizon. When the Dwarf clad in plate armor that matched that of his beast, and one of those at the time very new guns, he told us we were near Tanmar, and to prepare our stuff.

I went back to my cabin and gathered my things, which weren't much just some clothes, enough money to get by, and cartography tools. They gave me a standard issue sword, and a helmet which I put on but didn't plan on getting use out of. Me and the rest of the passengers, mostly men at arms some of those paladins like the dwarf from earlier looked over as on the horizon we came up to a swarm of griffins and pseudo-griffins patrolling an island with a massive fortress the size of an entire city, and surrounded by ports. Nicknamed The Virtues Aviary this fortress was the headquarters of the Virtuous Guard, and the Occupation of the Satanazes.

We came into port each being guided by a priest through some bureaucracy, they asked if we were staying or getting on a ship to Satanazes, when I told them I was headed for the HES Virtues Revenge a priest told me to follow her. I followed the white robed priest of the virtues through countless marching formations, carts dragging materials to parts of the Fort under construction, and people hawking tourist items. When we got to the docks there was a large group of Paladins of Virtue on the ship the priest was guiding him to. I told the priest that, this must be the wrong ship, I'm the cartographer, then she informed me, "This missions very important to the Archbishop which is why he sent his best." 

I didn't expect to need any security like this, I knew Satanezes was dangerous but we had garrisons their to deal with that. The priest introduced them as Charity Squadron who, along with a contingent of men-at-arms with spears and bows, would be the security on this expedition. I met with the captain a former privateer, who served on this ship raiding the coasts of Satanezes in the early parts of the war, now a commissioned captain with the pride of the Septean Fleet.

The Captain and The Knight Commander of the Paladin squadron showed me to the map room which consisted of some localized map from the war, and some stylized and very general depictions one in particular where the island itself was a monster. These were all I would have to work with other than my own observations. I figured I would have to collect a lot of my own sources from the locals, hopefully the contingent of super soldiers from the invading army surrounding me don't scare them all away.

The Virtues Revenge sailed of from the Tanmar fort docks. Packed with hulking military men in heavy armor, and me in a helmet I was recently informed I had been wearing backwards. The whole way I did my best to map the coast as accurately as possible, but the captain wouldn't allow the necessary detours. It became clearer and clearer to me that my job was not our main purpose here, more likely it was an excuse to parade around these paladins, maybe fire some cannons.

We came to our first stop: Aralia soon after leaving. Aralia was right across from the Tanmar fortress. As we pulled in I made notes of landmarks along the nearby coast. I prepared to sneak away to talk to the locals about the area, when the Knight Commander insisted his two best knights go with me. I led the two oafs the Knight Commander sent to "defend" me around the town, I didn't get any useful info until I lost them though. I told the oafs I heard people talking about resisting the occupation down an alley, and ran to a nearby tavern before they realized there was nothing.

I entered the dim smoky tavern, I ordered a drink at the bar and listened to a young but seemingly seasoned Dwarven sailor talk to a Tiefling about the local area. It wasn't until I asked if the crags on the coast they were talking about were to the east or west that they noticed me, the Dwarf put a knife to my throat as the tiefling asked why I wanted to know, and if I was from around here.

The interrogation continued for about a half hour until they took my notes, and kicked me out of the tavern laughing, and calling me, "The Worst Spy in Inundatia." The two Paladin oafs who were protecting me caught up with me, telling me they lost the rebel. I let them guide me back to the Garrison we were staying at so we could see the joint demonstration, by the sailors of The Virtues Revenge, and the Paladins of Charity Squadron. Both parts of the demonstration focused heavily on the ships cannons, and the paladins rifles.

Eventually I convinced a fisherman to take me out on the water so I could make some rough drafts of the bay. He was friendly enough a seemingly young elf, but was very wise and quiet, much better company than the raucous Septean Soldiers I was getting too used to. After awhile of quiet him fishing, me noting down features, and making approximations of the bays width, the peaceful elf asked me, "So, you're a Septean spy?" I immediately put down my work and my hands up trying my best to explain to him that I was a conscript, and only here to map, anything else with my nation is just in my way, to which he chuckled and said, "So then, do you want to know where the monsters went?" I knew this  Island was variably called Monsters Island or devils island, but always thought that was hyperbole, however I had heard tales of people connected to elemental water riding huge lizards creatures either way I was intrigued. "Sure I'll bite," I said the elf smiled and whistled as his hair floated as if in water, and his eyes glowed blue, I tried to look around quickly but the boat was knocked into the water.

We were being dragged under water by a giant sea monster of some sort, but the elf was still smiling as he handed me a shell necklace, as he gently kept me from floating up and with him and this creature I supposed was in some way his friend, and the "monsters" he was talking about. I put on the shell necklace in a panic, almost out of breath I didn't even know if it was to help but I didn't know what else to do, luckily it must have been magic cause I could immediately breath again. As the giant creature took us into some underground cavern, the elf told me he and his kin were those fabled Beastlords himself a beast speaker, a sort of priestly type, and that they were in hiding. When Septea took the island over they kicked out the Genasi, like the first archbishop blaming their elemental ancestors for the flood, and having the Beast Lords renounce their "wicked ways" or face banishment as well, while some stayed many fled underwater or into the jungle, many who stayed either had no noticable Genasi features like him,  renounced their Beastlord status only in practice, or were just unrelated to either group but still despised Septea and sympathized with their neighbors and relatives, all were resistant to the occupation. When I inquired why he told me all this he asked me as we got close to a light through the tunnels, "Would you act as a double agent for us, we'll give you any mapping info you need in exchange for Septean equivalents and any knowledge on Septean military structure," I did not want to be a spy at all, "sure" however they seemed more useful to my goals at the moment than my countrymen.

We got closer to the light as I showed him some charts I had of Tanmar around The Virtues Aviary, I had luckily been using special ink and paper a friend of a friend of a friend who was an alchemist had created and people said it wouldn't be worth the coin it cost. I was telling him about a shallow part of the bay that earlier charts ignored, causing at least a dozen shipwrecks, when our boat I now realize somewhat delicately in this monsters mouth, comes up to a pocket of air in these caverns where exists a small village of Genasi, non Genasi, dinosaurs, and a very small amount of dinosaur people. The beast carried us onto the shore, and as gently as it was capable dropped us onto it as my elf companion greatly thanked our chauffer. A couple of young elves shorter than even me ran up to my traveling companion shouting, "Uncle Telarios you're back!" He greeted them warmly in his quiet peaceful way I'd thought might be some sort of act but I'm beginning to believe is just him. I looked around, it seemed there was some way up to the surface as the smoke from torches and campfires floated towards another light further up, and their were passages to more above water caves. The village was centered around a long tent near the underwater pool we stood at the bay of, the second largest building sat on a ledge overlooking the rest surrounded by dinosaurs, and other beasts.

Once done reuniting with his family Telarios told me, "I'd been up there since the start of the occupation, their mother my sister is an important beast rider our father a chieftan before his death, I had renounced my role as beast speaker only nominally to your clergy so that I may operate in secret up there," a small avian creature with small wings and a mouth instead of a beak landed on his shoulder, "peep here helped out a lot with that," I marveled at all the strange creatures in this cave, but had to ask Telerios, "Uh so I'm here, what now?" Telerios then took me into the longhouse, where he began introducing me, and saying while they had little actual maps to provide me their trackers knew the land as well as the animals, and the druids as well as the land itself. He first introduced me to his twin sister Telaria, her elemental heritage much more obvious than that of the rest of her family, hair floating and eyes glowing just like Telarios's had but permanently and a slight blue to her skin, she told me she had taken teams of beast riders along the coast to track septean shipping and knew the coastlines better than anyone. After asking Telaria some questions id had about the bay, that were ignored in the bar previously, Telerios dragged me over to a Dwarf not Balathos who showed me a stone model of the caves we were in, carved out of a quartzlike material and filled with some sort of copper I believe, he offered to make a copy to which I eagerly accepted before being dragged to the next attendee of my apparent welcoming party. This was apparently the acting chief of this village a scaley old man with sparse feathers and a very subtle beak, sitting at a desk with a bunch of battlemaps I could tell were shoddily made, he told me these were all they had a lot involved the underground tunnels, combined with aerial and amphibious assaults. There were also loose ones of the major cities, certain hunting grounds and other notable locations, shoddy still but could be useful.

After figuring the oafs guarding me back in Aralia musta thought I was dead if they could even figure out I was on the water when a boat got snatched, I asked if there was somewhere I could stay while I worked on mapping the island, they said they might be able to spare space for some sort of office, but I would have to sleep in the longhouses dormitory. I put most of my gear in the tiny cabin they gave me for an office, and only left to sleep or eat if that, this went on for a few weeks only leaving the village to join Telaria and the beast riders on scouting missions on the back of one of the seamonsters that took me down here in the first place, with their help I got what I believe to be the most accurate mapping of The Satanazes coastline. Ocassionally I would also work with Balathos on improvements to his stone model maps using my cartographic and mechanical skills and his stonecarving skills and knowledge of the caverns we made versions that could be added onto, mark landmarks, as well as devising ones of different sizes, one almost the size of the cabin I stayed in was built in front of the Longhouse.

After a few weeks, and getting a good map of the coastline, even some further inland places their weren't many septean patrols, I realized I wanted a better view of some of the places inland. I knew the Beastlords had some plan to attack the occupiers via some sort of Aerial assault, there were some prototype airships at the time, but nothing militarily viable so I asked them if they had some way I could get a view of these places from high up to which Telaria smirked and said, "We had been meaning to take them out sometime soon, we were low on supplies, could take you out with us" she guided me towards the surface, but just before turned to an upper cavern leading to a sort of airbay full of flying creatures and druids and riders, one of which was Telarios talking to some of he beasts. When Telaria told him what we were doing, I understood for the first time this was a raid, it really kicked in when she threw a breastplate over me a helmet on my head, and shoved a musket into my arms what I signed up for. Telerios told his sister we had enough supplies and this was dangerous when they're trying to keep a low profile, eventually settling for coming along to make sure she doesen't get in trouble.

Telaria guided me to a group of gigantic birds with long scaley necks,  beaks larger than me, and skull shaped patterns on their faces, I had thought they were a myth but appearently the Satanzean death dragons were real. Telaria tossed me a pair of goggles meant to go over the helmet, and a scarf she told me to put around my mouth, her telarios and the other riders wearing similar gear. We all mounted up strapping ourselves in, all the beasts meant to ridden had saddles as complex as rigging for the largest ships I've sailed on. As we flew through the sky I tried to take notes, and roughly map the quickly passing geography, but decided to keep my gear in my satchel lest it fly away, and take mental notes instead. At least I could see the whole island from here immediately as we flew out of that mountain. As we soared to the coast, Telaria pointed out landmarks, and similar hidden villages around the island, from which occasionally came other Deathdragons. We reached the shore and in the distance a merchant vessel was leaving the island in the direction of Royllo, to which Tellaria said, "Bingo" then let out a call and all the riders dived and sped up. When we were above the ship, Telaria turned to me, said "Don't worry, I'll be right back" strapped herself to a different part of the Deathdragon and rappeled onto the ship followed by the rest of the riders. I couldn't make out exactly what was happening, but Tellaria was loudly commanding the merchants and her fellow raiders, as they piled up cargo on the top deck, until a shot rang out of from in the bowels of the ship, and golden armored gun and halberd toating paladins poured out, beastriders in some of their clutches, the rest standing down as Cuelebre riders come out of the ocean, a couple pulled down by seamonsters, but shot away by the Paladins.

Telarios, one of the only remaining riders still in the air shouted, "Telaria can take care of herself Jeremius, we have to get out of here." I tried to take the reigns of the Deathdragon as the others went in to attack the cuelebre riders, but the dragon was shot, before plummeting I threw my satchel to Telarios saying, "hope this helps," then the wounded Deathdragon began to nosedive till I felt faint, the last thing I remember in those moments is something, catching me by the scarf. 

I woke up, stripped down to my pants and my shirt in a dungeon somewhere, I tried my best to look around but chained to the wall  I could barely look at the window and the bars to my cell were on the other side. It looked like their was a bay outside, if this were The Virtues Aviary, I'd be able to see Aralia from here, and if it were Aralia id be able to see Tanmar, so this must not be the highest security, unless we're on Septea. I shouted if anyone was there, and when no response came I sighed and twiddled my thumbs, until a door opened and two paladins stood in front of my cell, the Oafs originally sent to babysit me. "Oh your awake now" one of them said, the other said, "We gotta take you to see the Knight Commander now." They led me in irons through, a city I was unfamiliar with but recognized the architecture as distinctly Satanzean, until we went up a hill to a fortified building that looked like it was some sort of town hall, or other central building before the occupation, we went in and passed several men at arms, a few other paladins and the Knight Commander sitting at a chair overlooking everyone else like a make shift throne. 

"I can't believe it," he said standing up, "such a well respected and talented, Septean betraying his people. Well Jeremius, I have good news for me and bad news for you, I have been appointed Governor-General of the Satanazes, they are no longer under the dominion of The Governor-Archbishopric of Royllo. As for you, as a traitor you will be shunned for life if not in a dungeon, but I could make it easier on you if you help me deal with your new friends." I thought about it for a second, I didn't want to spend the rest of my life in a dungeon, but I could also tell there was no way this occupation would last even without my maps, the Beastlords have a massive advantage in geographical knowledge. "I'll give you what I can," I sighed, I still didn't want to be a spy at all, but if I had too I didn't want it to be for this deluded jingoists power grab, I decided to sabatoge them were I could with faulty maps and fake intel until I can escape or get rescued.

I was still kept in the dungeon, but allowed mapping equipment, clothes, and more and more til I was basically on house arrest somewhere nicer than were I was with the Beastlords, just much worse company as my oaf babysitters continued to be assigned to me. One cool night after convincing my guards of how urgent it was two copies of a map get to both the docks and the Governor-General, I had some alone time and smoked a pipe and read a little when Tellarios's small beakless bird creature flew through the open window with a paper tied to its leg, I untied it and read the paper, 'Dear friend, time draws near, 3 nights from this one, look for the hook, tug twice' I wrote back in the affirmative and sent the creature out, I had just enough time to finish the last few paragraphs of my book before one of the guards got back. Three days later I was working on a fake map, with several fake hazards to slow future septean vessels, when I heard a tapping at the window neither guard noticed, one had fallen asleep the other looking outside, I quietly snuck out through the window in the bathroom. I went up to the hook, attatched it to my belt best I could and the rope reeled me into the sky, this would probably be almost a fun experience with the protective gear  I lacked at the moment. Once I reached the top Telaria pulled me onto her Deathdragon heavily bandaged but free and alive. We took off just as the guards began setting off the alarm.

I made sure to keep my eyes and mouth closed on the ride out of the city, both me and Telaria too tired to sleep, and to dark for me to look around anyways. I'd almost fallen asleep when Telaria said, "we're almost there, you'll want to hear what the chief and my brother have to say," I opened one eye slightly for a second to see their aviary lit up, then closed my eyes till we landed again the wind whipping at my eye the split second it was open.

We landed, and being a seaman had never been so gracious for land. Telaria led me to the longhouse were a large meeting was taking place over some of my maps, The Chief Telarios, and their counterparts from other tribes were discussing an assault on Tanmar cutting off supply between the island and the rest of Septea, Balathos says there are tunnels there but they're flooded some water genasi druids claim they can clear the way for a small group, of terrestrial beasts, I point out some aspects of the bay that the occupiers don't know about, and how they could be used for traps and ambushes.

I didn't want to be conscripted again but it seemed I had no choice, I wouldn't fight my countrymen but I'd be part of the chiefs support helping him get as accurate info from the maps as possible. We slept that night knowing tomorrow we would see battle. That morning, I was equipped and put on the back of a Deathdragon with the Chief, he told me we would be landing on a special kind of ship, when we took off I had no idea what he meant till we got to the ocean, a fleet of monsters like the one that initially took me to the underground village, supporting massive beasts with whole ship decks on their back, one with a large tent on top of that that we landed on.

Another rider took the Deathdragon back once we landed, we went into the tent where battleplans had been prepared, the monstrous fleet moved, I could even see what looked like huge monstrous balloons in the sky with ships dangling from them, The Chief explained, "before the war we didn't have much in the way of a navy, but in the years since we've scavenged wrecks and attatched them to our beasts, to create something superior." we sat at the back of the fleet, Telerios ocassionally comuning with beasts in the field to report the battles status. We were able to get a foothold pretty quickly do to our combined attack, but once cuelebre riders mobilized we could no longer maintain aerial superiority, luckily the seamonsters were able to out maneuver the septean ships, luckily I'd convinced them to minimize casualties, so druids have been giving nearly drowned sailors water breathing once captured.

When reinforcements from Royllo crashed on the shallows and began to be boarded by monsters. The fortress sounded a horn and put up a white flag

---- planning ----
1. more interesting battle description
2. enter fortress
3. oafs try to ambush jeremius and chief, standoff take bullet for chief?
4. learn Governor Generals in other city, but without Tanmar occupation falling apart
5. confront governor general
6. negotiate (temporary) peace between the two