

The following was published by a member of The Cartographers guild after the disapearence of Jeremius following a reported interaction with a banshee.

The Story had been taught orally, before the posthumous publication of this work.

One night we spotted an island we hadn't seen before. We'd travelled this way a dozen times before and somehow missed this island so we decided we would check it out, and revise our maps accordingly. The next morning we woke up and continued on towards the island. We've been sailing towards the island for hours, but once we got to a certain point we couldn't get any closer, gonna have a night watch keep an eye on things while some of us get shut eye.

The next morning I awoke to a bright light coming in the captains quarters, and looked out to see massive fields of green, vibrant in an almost dreamlike manner. I clothed myself and went out the door to see we had crashed on the shore. I was initially suspicious my hand on my cutlass when I saw one of my crew discussing favorite pastries with a small winged fellow. Then a halfling like me but with a green tint to him particularly noticible in the bright green thumbs, and the hair on his feet came in told me he was "Henry Mossfoot Feyfoot Halflings ," and "Welcome to Hy-Brasil ."

I was led by this Halfling along with some of my crew through a land of vast gardens with towering hedges and topiarys, dwarfing the small partially subterranean homes between them. it wasn't until we realized the blue and white we saw wasn't the horizon but a massive opulent palace that we realized whose garden it was. The palace was huge and without any sort of symmetry or thought towards structural integrity, and to top it off it seemed entirely different every time I blinked.

We stepped into a grand hall with pearly white floors and walls covered in beautiful murals and tapestries, and tinted glass in the ceiling giving the hall a distinct green hue. A woman in a long trailing black robe with a hood that almost looked like a beak apparated in a cloud of fog. Henry directed us towards the tall corvine shadow introducing her as, "The Morrigan,Queen of Phantoms."

As I stepped closer I noticed The Phantom Queens cloak had a crown beneath the cloak and a veil over her face. She welcomed me and my crew but told us we had no way of leaving, since we were here over night and the island is only material one day every seven years. After some paniced inquiry she informed us that yes, we were trapped for the next seven years but she would provide us with anything we needed, and had fixed our boat that crashed on their shores.

After this encounter Henry guided me and my crew to our ship, good as new at a makeshift dock next to a long version of those subterranean homes, "This lodge can act as your home for your stay" he told us.

We set up, in this cozy lodge full of books, everything from, "a million and one ways to use fey magic to prank your friends," to an in depth twenty volume treatise on gardening titled simply, "Mega Flora and You." subtitled "Aka. Gardening for Archfey"

We got cozy in what would seemingly be our home for the next seven years. After months of leisure the crew had not got in ages, Henry Mossfoot and a troop of knightly fairies with crow wings blaring trumpets came to the lodge. "On behalf of The Morrigan Queen of Phantoms, we come to deliver an offer," he proclaimed to us. Henry revealed a scroll that, before anyone could read it filled our minds with the voice of The Morrigan, "Our realm being a mirror to the material plane has flooded as yours has, that being the case we had to quickly learn shipbuilding, and sailing, and to be blunt we have not done well. I would ask that you train some of my people in sailing, and help map the lands as well is possible here. In exchange I will grant you untold riches, and will provide any material needed for your new position."

I pondered, the crew had been getting antsy but also enjoyed the leisure. I agreed on the condition that his crew would get time to enjoy the lodge in between spelunking, and teaching, Henry told us it was doable and we shook on it.

Teaching was new to us, and did not come easily, luckily we did know ships and maps, and it came naturally enough to them. Once we had them skilled enough to teach more themselves The Morrigan had us gather up an exploratory fleet, commisioning me as an Admiral, and sending us to attempt to map the islands of the Feywild.

We thought sailing, and mapping ourselves would be the easy part, but we did not yet quite understand the Feywild. When teaching the Fairies to sail they told us traditional maps wouldn't work but we didn't understand til we saw it for ourselves. Half the islands we landed on turned out to be entirely mirages stepping off our anchored ships straight into the sea. Even when we did find actual solid islands they rarely stayed that way, or at least the same constantly shifting positions and shape.

After a couple years of this, we did find some other lands populated with fairies or not, but definitely solid and mostly consistently placed. I began to realize how correct the fairies were before when they said traditional cartography wouldn't work, my crew and I worked with the fairies to develop a method and catalog of phenomena that accounted for temporal and spatial changes in position, as well as used The Phantom Queens recources to produce tools that could measure those changes.

With these new tools and techniques, we could map with untold of accuracy in this realm. We discovered new lands and helped the court of Hy-Brasil colonize desolate islands, and recruit the fairies of populated ones. We were intercepted by crude but fast ships we'd never seen before, and boarded by goblins more organized than I'd ever seen when the one seemingly in charge says, "King wants ye' follow us." The two ships went forward, and figuring they were more blunt than hostile the crew and I followed.

We followed to a city built on, in, and around a truly humongous fortress, with a shoddy but huge port. Docking seemed to be an issue with how crowded the port was, but to the Goblins it seemed normal, I suppose their port had just always been that crowded. Entering the port stronghold we saw every kind of Goblinkin and several we never could have, some very different than others but something united them I didn't quite understand.

After an arduous hike we were led to the fortress proper then through halls, armories, and training grounds, to finally reach a throne room. The massive bone and hide throne sat on an elevated stage about 6 feet off the ground and elevated another one or two by a set of stairs. Even more imposing was the Goblin on that throne, an 8 foot behemoth with a wild mane only kept in check by a crown of gnarled metal and ivy.

I saw the hulking beast raise himself and spread his huge robin wings from behind his back, and a shaman next to him began to speak, "Introduc-" "I am The Hobroy, King of Goblins!" He announced cutting off the Shaman and begining to strut about, "I saved my host from the flood, and bring them now to conquer our ancient homelands." The Goblins around the throne room began a cacophanous cheer of their kings epiphets. The Hobroy leaned down to me and my crew, wings casting a shadow over us, "and we know who you are plenty well Jeremius the Mapper Admiral of the Court of Hy-Brasil."

I tried to explain to him we meant no harm but that seemed not to be his concern, he told us, "Your Queen" had broken the rules of reciprocity, and would,"meet his hammer on her day of reckoning." Not knowing what he planned to do with me otherwise, some horrific torture no doubt, I convinced The Hobroy that, the Queen had no idea of who he was, and deserved at least some warning. After some contemplation he told me none of his sailors did ever come back from sending those messages, so he sent me and my crew to send a message. The issue is however he wanted collateral, and would only take one thing: my eye. Having little choice I gave it to him as long as I would get it back if I returned.

The trip back to Hy-Brasil was bleak the home we'd built there, even if always meant to be temporary, seemed doomed. Sailing through mirages we'd mapped throughout the years like we couldn't even see them, the crew and I began planning to improve the Islands defenses. We'd sent messenger crows ahead with news of when we'd arrive and that we would need to see The Queen imediately. We got the normal crowd of welcomers when we got to land, friends and family of the crew, and Henry Mossfoot waiting to take us to The Morrigan

We Entered The Morrigans palace as beautiful as ever, little did anyone know the nature of our news. The Court gathered around The Queen, and us in front of her. I don't remember quite what I said but I remember choking up for the first time in a long time, and spurting out info, after mentioning the rule of reciprocity, the court went silent. The Queen said that, "this king of goblins" had given her nothing to recipricate, and if he meant to make war on her people she would defend them tenfold.

This is when The Morrigan showed everyone another of her forms, some of the fey knew what was going on but me and my crew were astounded. The Queen melted into a puddle of shadow spreading across the court as the light through the window ceiling darkened and the shadow that was The Queen rose into the shape of a gargantuan crow with a skeletal head, and with a mighty caw rose summoning a horde of ghostly shrieking women, and an accompanying force of crows.

My crew, and I had little military experience amongst ourselves, so we were given a crash course in some basic swordsmanship, fencing practice with 1 foot tall fairies can be brutal but prepared our senses for anything. We helped the fairys develop tactics to defend boarded ships and best defend our islands and organize our fleet, as well as outfit our ships with ballistae and catapults.

We began to do patrols around the Islands of one of The Morrigans vassal: The High-Dame of The Sorrorital Order of the Selkies Maeve, who were a great aid in navigating the feysea's. On one of these patrols a group of selkie outriders came to my flagship some of them severely injured and all of them desperate. They began to desperately warn us of something when the lookout in the crows nest shouted, "Starboard!" The clouds on the Horizon parted and revealed two mega ships with huge catapults flanking a third, surrounded by those crude ships I saw before at The Hobroys fortress.

The two megaships launched their payload sending every kind of goblin imaginable into the sky over us, some using each other to break there fall, some breaking others fall then dying, and some using magic or wings to slow their fall. Most of this goblin horde flung at our ships crashed into our ships and died possibly damaging the ship or a crew member, or into the ocean and drowned by our Selkie allies .

My crew and I engaged the goblins on our ship, many were careless and unaware of their environment we knocked many in the water, bested the rest with our home field advantage. What we weren't prepared for was the non-thinned out very close horde of those small fast ships crashing into our boarding most of our fleet as those who were aware, and the Selkie Dames fended them off. While everyone was distracted by the boarding, my Boatswain Scout Harrington pointed out their third megaship, had a huge boulder aiming for the Selkies fortress.

I broke out of my stunned state and sent a courier for High-Dame Maeve, and turned our ship towards the Goblin megaship, when a winged creature blotted out the sky. The behemoth King of Goblins The Hobroy crashed into my ship almost shattering the wood and landing on a lower deck. I handed the helm to an able member of my crew, and engaged the beast begining by throwing a dagger at him, and missing. His retaliation of laughter and charging towards me, caused a sense of self preservation to swell within me, and I sprinted down to the lower decks.

The Hobroy charged into the lower decks scaring the crew who hadn't yet learned of his arrival but were fighting goblins that had flooded in here as well. I positioned a goblin to bump into Hobroy tripping him, when I heard it: a massive horn coming from The Dame's fortress. I ducked past a Brownie, and stabbed a Hob to get to the top deck, and see the arrival of the of The Morrigan, and her host of crows and banshee blot out the sky.

We were getting closer to their loaded Megaship when The Hobroy saw The Morrigan and her host, he snickered and transformed himself in a coccoon of feathers he became a giant robin to match The Morrigans current size and form, ascending towards her for an attack, along with a swarm of robins and flying goblins. Occupying The Morrigan, and most of our aerial forces.

I retook the helm as we shed the goblins we had on board leaving the main battle and preparing to somehow stop this boulder from being catapulted, at our best chance at defending Hy-Brasil. We approached the goblins who fired arrows, we retaliated while our Banshee and Crow allies descended on the goblins and our Selkie allies began boarding, and dragging goblins into the sea.

I turned the ship so we would ram near the catapult on the mega ship hoping to take out the catapult, and hopefully mostly not die. I called for everyone to brace for impact. I don't remember the crash but I remember waking up to a short wide goblin chanting something to levitate the catapult, and a bugbear fighting my crew and allies. I got up snuch around the bugbear and kicked the shaman down into the water, the catapult falling on him and the bug bear as the rest of the fairies, and goblins managing to get away.

We began to gain a foothold on the megaship when a blur of reddish orange crashed down, The Hobroy in his giant robin form. The Giant Robin roared a beastial roar, as bones broke and antlers like thorned branches began to jut from his head and his skin grew scales. Just as a pair of reptilian hind legs grew from his tail causing an explosion of massive feathers which took out several of both sides ships, including one of the remaining goblin megaships, and finishing of the one he had landed on.

Just as his transformation finished a giant ethereal woman in all black, a 20 foot tall banshee, flew in shrieking and clawing at the newly formed Hobbeast. I was dragged away by a Selkie as many of us were, others by winged fairies. I turned to see who my savior was, still somewhat dazed by the giants fighting above his crumbling, and burning flagship, High-Dame Maeve herself. The High-Dame told me we were regrouping at their fortress, I looked to see my men retreating, as many of the goblins did to check on their sinking megaships.

High-Dame Maeve and I reached the small, now over crowded dock to their stronghold. She informed me the Balistae had fired warning shots to keep the remaining goblins away, and anything now was up to The Morrigan. I asked the High-Dame if she knew anything about this gift The Hobroy sent, and she told me The Queen would not recipricate a "worthless puzzle," and that, "if she wanted a challenge for something, she would make sure to know what she'll get." I asked her where that puzzle box was, and had what was left of my men prepare the fastest ship we had left. The High-Dame pointed us in the direction of a vault beneath the palace in, "the useless trinket" section.

We left some men to defend the stronghold, but the best sailors came with me back to Hy-Brasil, we had little time. As we got close to the shore I sent a messenger for Henry running things in The Morrigans stead, to inform him to meet us at the docks. When he got there, we all began towards the palace while I informed Henry of the goings on at the battle.

Henry, Scout, and I went in, the rest of the crew stayed at the ship to keep it ready. We descended into a vault, the entrance only hidden by plants, and its awkward placement in the great hall. Eventually the hurried green halfling guided us too, a room with a plaque that said, "Useless trinkets" over the doorway. Within this treasure trove was a massive pile of junk, which we sorted through until we found a puzzlebox engraved: From: The H To: The M.

As we ran back to the ship Henry shouted that he thinks he can solve the puzzle. As we sailed back Henry, and some of my Fey crew tried to solve the puzzlebox, it was extremely difficult requiring in depth knowledge of Fey ettiquette, and magic. It wasn't until we could see the battle still raging that we even got close.

We landed back on the stronghold docks bringing the puzzle to High-Dame Maeve, with her help they finally opened it. Henry spoke the answer to a riddle about about an obscure ancient fey Archduke, and the last of several bands unraveled, and the sphere at the center of this puzzle box opened, revealing a ring. Henry took the ring out, reading the engraving, he informed us it was a marriage proposal in both Goblin and Fairy.

I hopped back on the ship with my crew, and Henry sailing for the cloud of red and black clashing against each other. Fending off boarding goblins, and dive bombing robins. As we neared the eye of this storm we saw the two Demigods still locked in combat, Henry and I rushed to the Bow of the ship. After minutes of shouting and waving we got their attention, we showed The Morrigan the true gift. The Banshee descended as calm swept the battlefield, she read the inscription and turned to The Hobbeast confused asking, "a proposal?"

The two Fairy Monarchs turned to the gathered armies, proclaiming a cease fire, then turning into their giant avian forms and flying into the sky. Now that goblins weren't killing everyone, and the ring got delivered my crew and I as well as the selkies took well deserved rests, in shifts lest hostilities begin again.

The Monarchs returned above the fortress the next day, in their initial, humanoid forms, proclaiming they would be wed here when the moon meets the sun, which Henry informed me did happen, and would be a month from now. They announced that this union would bind their kingdoms together to expand across all the Feysea and end the violence currently going on.

I was chosen to ordain the wedding, something I'd never done in the material world, and I couldn't even begin to grasp in the fairy world, even after all those years. I helped plan the wedding with Henry, and The High-Dame it being her fortress and all. Both the Bride, and Groom wanted military exercises, and parades which had to be prepared. The Fortress also had to be decorated temporarily with robin and crow motifs, as well as huge topiaries of the entire wedding party.

The day came, I was at the podium when the groom came down the aisle flying, his red breastplate shinier than ever, under an elegant black coat clearly given to him by The Queen. The bride glided down the aisle as ever in all black. They said their vows, The Morrigans much more succinct, and elequent, The Hobroys passionate but unfocused. I pronouced them married, and a cadre of archers on either side goblin, and fairy shot over each other. The remaining goblin megaship shot goblins over the ceremony. After the ceremony I tried something I had been meaning to try for years, goblin grog, I do not remember the rest of that night.

After the party, both courts moved to Hy-Brasil, and The Hobroys fortress became a sort of more military co-capital. Peace suited the place nicely, but seemed to bore the Monarchs who would have mock battles like chess. My crew, and I however were rewarded by being allowed to spend the rest of our time here in leisure.

Eventually Hy-Brasil returned to the material. The Morrigan, and The Hobroy gifted the remaining crew, some fairies who wished to come with us and I: A recreated version of my old ship, as well as riches upon riches. Gold, statuettes of ourselves, gems you name it our ship was stocked to the brim.

We hurried out before spending another 7 years in this land where time doesen't quite exist. Once we got to a port we began to split our riches, I would eventually turn mine as well as some pooled from the crew to found The Cartographers Guild. We've been passing our knowledge and stories down ever since.

**