---
draft: false
---
I came from a large family in the capital city of Septea Cyodue, which is useful in The Seven Cities, but only if they're part of the church or a guild. We were all laborers and peasants though a great uncle of mine was an apprentice in one of the first guilds, but he never got any further so that was our peak. When I got old enough to work the best my family could swing me is life as a dockworker, was fine enough for awhile but I've always been one to get tired of seeing the same things.

I musta been in my late teens, two years of lifting boxes on and off ships, and I decided I wanted to see something new. Next time I was alone in a ship bound for Jaysos I hid in an empty barrel, and waited for as long as I could. Eventually I fell asleep, and didn't wake up til I'd been moved to shore and someone began pouring water in to which I spat and got out. 

I was in a different city marshy and along a river, this must have been Jaysos, I was also surrounded by burly sailors and a couple merchant looking fellas. I shrugged and said, "Uh greetings," to which one merchant shook and chastised me for ruining his goods, and other laughed saying, "I'll still pay you, that laugh was plenty worth it," a couple of the sailors held me by the shoulders as the merchants finished their buisness, then the one who chuckled and whose ship I was appearently on turned to me, and had his sailors let go of me, "Now son, why were you hiding in one of my barrels." I shook nervously as I explained to him my life story and dreams of seeing distant lands, rediscovering places and cultures lost to or changed by the flood, the more I told him the more annoyed with me and more amused by me he seemed to get til he clapped me on the back and guided me towards his ship, "Tell ye what son, we can take on one more crew member but ye'll have to do yer part, maybe even learn a bit of a trade from one a me officers" 

I was introduced to all the officers and taught the basics of what I'd have to do, for now it'd mostly be cleaning and loading and unloading boxes which I suppose I was already proficient in. We left the busy bog town of Jaysos the Cathedral of Charity overlooking the Geyser and sprawling town around both. The ship was filled to the brim with water, colonists, and food to take to the Prince-Bishoprics colony of Royllo. I took a moment to admire all the wetland around the winding river we went through, between cleaning duties and being shoved between passengers, I'd only read about places like this in the churches library seeing the world sure is something else.

A little over a day later, we'd gotten out of the river, and Royllo was on the horizon a few hours after that. When we docked at the small but busy port colonists rushing off to new lives and new fortunes as we unloaded food, and water. The Captain said we'd be here a few days while he aquired some things gave us a bit of pay and went off with his quarter master up into the wetland Frogdog farms. 

I took the opprotunity to explore this new city, so far was not to different from Cyodue but much smaller, I stopped by the church, it looked a lot like the one in Jaysos and the services were a lot nicer than those in Cyodue, as I left they were handing out bread and I took some which was suprisingly delicious for plain bread appearently baked with Royllo frogdog eggs. 

After hearing a lot about these frog dogs I thought I'd check them out, I knew the Captain and Quartermaster were looking at them right now so maybe I could catch up with them. After following a country road up the cliffs and into the ranches, I looked out at the frogdogs until I heard a loud "SON!" I turned to see the captain and quartermaster leading three frogdogs my way.

"Son what a suprise, we could use your help wrangling these guys, you'll be in charge of cleaning up after them so may as well get used to em." The three of us led the  Frogdogs down to the harbor, and on the ship. That night forward we ate so many eggs we got sick of em, for me that bread would always an exception though. Next morning The Captain took a log barge headed to the Leagues of The Wooded Coves regional Guild Hall to cash a promissary note from the Prince-Bishopric of Jaysos for the supplies we brought. I was told to help the Navigator organize in addition to my cleaning duties. The Navigator a quiet old elf with messy long grey hair and matching beard, wearing a chaperon and robes covered in stars showed me how to read maps, take measurements using different navigational tools. 

Organizing his maps I noticed a bunch of them were missing details that could cause a shipwreck, specifically a coral reef off the coast, that had some divers and fishermen, but if a large merchant ship like ours tried to go through, well the divers might have something new to dive for. The old elf chuckled, and brought out a set of dusty tools from under his bed, and showed me how to add those hazards to the map saying, "This was a cheap map anyways so even if you mess it up we needed a new one anyways" he showed me how to measure where it was to get it on the map as accurately as possible, and showed me the best shorthand for it, we did the same for some breaks and islets.

We'd been working on improving the map till the sun went down, completely forgetting about the organizing, the old elf telling me normally id be too old to be taken on as an apprentice but he'd make sure I'm taken as an exception saying I was a natural and had "an eye for the practical aspects of cartography most navigators don't," he said I'd probably still have to clean and do whatever the captain needed of me but I'd be able to keep learning about navigation. We kept working on improvements to the map, the elf as energized as I'd ever seen him usually he just stood by the captain with a peaceful but stern look now he was grinning, when we heard cheers from outside. We rushed to join the crowd outside and see what all the excitement was about.

The crowd surrounded the gangplank as the quartermaster crossed with a big bag and started handing out Purpleheart wood coins 2 to everyone except the Officers, who I suppose had some other arrangement. The captain followed the quartermaster giving a speech about how we did this as a crew, and there was more where that came from. A celebration followed long into the night, the quartermaster opened a barrel of ale he got last night and we all ate fresh fish from the bay. 

The next morning The Captain okayed me spending the day helping the navigator get ready to take off in the morning, the captain himself making deals in the hills just outside the city.




(Cyodue, Jaysos, Royllo, Paldriean colony(proto greymoore)to get psychadelics to sell back to Cyodue sell drugs buy guns, to Royllo to arm rebels)

Jeremius betray captain, become national hero? on accident? feel bad? Only cares about mapping so maybe not